sitemap/README.md, before:

Readme for generate-sitemap.sh

1. To run the script open a terminal or command window with Bash available
2. Run `bash generate-sitemap.sh`

About the script:
- record_urls function takes in 6 arguements
  1. hostname
  2. application
  3. catalog_id
  4. schema
  5. table
  6. keycol
- The default for this script is to be used for the chaise application with the following values
  1. www.facebase.org
  2. chaise
  3. 1
  4. legacy
  5. dataset
  6. id
- The script currently outputs a sitemap.txt file in the same directory that the script is run from.
  - sitemap.txt format must be fully qualified URLs separated by new line characters (the script takes care of this for you)
- The output URLs for the sitemap currently do NOT take into account for values that need to be URL encoded.
- The sitemap needs to be defined in the robots.txt file to be read by Google's crawlers.
  - Format for robots.txt needs to include some instructions for web crawlers so they know how to interpret the file
  - User-agent: Signifies what types of bots can access/crawl the site. Defined with an asterisk/wildcard signifies that all bots must follow the below instruction.
  - Disallow: Allows the user to define what parts of the site should or should not be crawled. Leaving this blank tells the crawler to look at everything that it can.
  - Sitemap: The user can define a sitemap file that can point to URLs on the site that the crawler should visit. This is especially useful when there isn't links to all of the data and, in our case with chaise, the data is hidden behind pagination.
  - Robots.txt format:

    User-agent:*  
    Disallow:  
    Sitemap: http://www.example.com/sitemap.txt  
  
  - The sitemap definition in robots.txt needs to point to where the file is hosted by the application. The crawler CANNOT read into the file structure of the application on the server so it needs to be able to grab the sitemap from a page on the site.

Commit message:

fixed the sitemap script to be more generic and accept arguments from the command line so the user doesn't have to modify the script to run it. user must define the ouput file after the list of arguments

sitemap/README.md, after:

Readme for generate-sitemap.sh

1. To run the script open a terminal or command window with Bash available
2. Run `bash generate-sitemap.sh {1} {2} {3} {4} {5} {6} > output.txt`

About the script:
- record_urls function takes in 6 arguments
  1. hostname
  2. application
  3. catalog_id
  4. schema
  5. table
  6. keycol
- An example of this script being used is for chaise application with the following values
  `bash generate-sitemap.sh www.facebase.org chaise 1 legacy dataset id > sitemap.txt`
- The script currently outputs a sitemap.txt file in the same directory that the script is run from.
  - sitemap.txt format must be fully qualified URLs separated by new line characters
    - the script takes care of this for you
    - The script always outputs in a format compatible as a .txt
- The output URLs for the sitemap currently do NOT take into account for values that need to be URL encoded.
- The sitemap needs to be defined in the robots.txt file to be read by Google's crawlers.
  - Format for robots.txt needs to include some instructions for web crawlers so they know how to interpret the file
  - User-agent: Signifies what types of bots can access/crawl the site. Defined with an asterisk/wildcard signifies that all bots must follow the below instruction.
  - Disallow: Allows the user to define what parts of the site should or should not be crawled. Leaving this blank tells the crawler to look at everything that it can.
  - Sitemap: The user can define a sitemap file that can point to URLs on the site that the crawler should visit. This is especially useful when there isn't links to all of the data and, in our case with chaise, the data is hidden behind pagination.
  - Robots.txt format:

    ```
    User-agent:*  
    Disallow:  
    Sitemap: http://www.example.com/sitemap.txt  
    ```

  - The sitemap definition in robots.txt needs to point to where the file is hosted by the application. The crawler CANNOT read into the file structure of the application on the server so it needs to be able to grab the sitemap from a page on the site.
