doc/configuration.md, before:

# Configuration

**Chaise** is using a set of default configuration parameters. You can overwrite them through the _chaise-config.js_ file and/or the search parameters in the URL. The URL search parameters take precedence over the _chaise-config.js_ parameters, which at their turn take precedence over the default ones.




The below table explains the usage of the default parameters:

| Parameter | Values | Default Value | chaise-config.js | URL | Remarks |
|-----------|--------|---------------|------------------|-----|---------|
| catalog | A catalog id | 1 | "catalog":\<id\> | catalog=\<id\> | The catalog id has a numeric value |
| schema | A schema name | N/A | "schema":\<name\> | schema=\<name\> | A default value can be established through the [schema annotation default keys](https://github.com/informatics-isi-edu/chaise/blob/master/doc/annotation.md#schema-annotations). <br> A random schema of the catalog is selected if it is not specified otherwise. |
| layout | list <br> table <br> card | list | "layout":\<value\> | layout=\<value\> | The view the summary page will be rendered. |
| facetPolicy | on_demand | N/A | "facetPolicy":\<value\> | N/A | If present with the _on_demand_ value, requests (for facets count and for facets distinct values) will be issued only for the selected facets. <br> At start up, the facets with the "top" annotation will be selected.<br>  On demand, you can check also other facets. |
| feedbackURL | An URL for a form to provide feedback. | None | "feedbackURL":\<URL\> | N/A | |
| helpURL | An URL for getting help using Chaise. | None | "helpURL":\<URL\> | N/A | |
| ermrestLocation | The base URL for the ERMrest service | window.location.protocol + // + window.location.host | "ermrestLocation": \<URL\> | N/A | The location of the ERMrest service. |
| recordResource | The sub path for the record resource | /record | "recordResource":\<value\> | N/A | |
| showBadgeCounts | true <br> false | false | "showBadgeCounts":\<value\> | N/A | If true, facet counts will be displayed in the sidebar. |
| tableThreshold | Number of rows. | 0 | "tableThreshold":\<value\> | N/A | Max number of rows default to transpose view. |
| showAllAttributes | A boolean | False | "showAllAttributes":\<value\> | N/A | If present and True, select all the attributes in the search page. |
| headTitle | An application name | Chaise | "headTitle":\<value\> | N/A | The application name. |
| customCSS | An URL | N/A | "customCSS":\<value\> | N/A | The URL for a style sheet file to be applied for the application header. |
| navbarBrand | An URL | N/A | "navbarBrand":\<value\> | N/A | The URL for the branding logo in the top navigation bar. |
| navbarBrandText | A string | Chaise | "navbarBrandText":\<value\> | N/A | The value to be displayed in the navigation bar. |
| navbarBrandImage | An URL | N/A | "navbarBrandImage":\<value\> | N/A | The URL for an image to be displayed in the navigation bar. |
| logoutURL | An URL | /chaise/logout | "logoutURL":\<value\> | N/A | The URL to the logout page. |
| dataBrowser | An URL | /chaise/search | "dataBrowser":\<value\> | N/A | The URL to continue after a logout. |
| defaultAnnotationColor | red, orange, gold, green, blue, purple | red | "defaultAnnotationColor":\<value\> | N/A | In `/chaise/viewer`, annotations' borders and colors will default to this value. |
| confirmDelete | A boolean | true | "confirmDelete":\<value\> | N/A | Whether the user will be prompted for confirming on deletion of comments and annotations |
| hideSearchTextFacet | A boolean | false | "hideSearchTextFacet":\<value\> | N/A | Whether the search box for attributes names and values should be hidden |
| maxColumns | An integer | 6 | "maxColumns":\<value\> | N/A | The maximum number of columns to be displayed in the search result table |

Commit message:

Move modal service to common/

doc/configuration.md, after:

# Configuration

**Chaise** is using a set of default configuration parameters. You can overwrite them through the _chaise-config.js_ file and/or the search parameters in the URL. The URL search parameters take precedence over the _chaise-config.js_ parameters, which at their turn take precedence over the default ones.




The below table explains the usage of the default parameters:

| Parameter | Values | Default Value | chaise-config.js | URL | Remarks |
|-----------|--------|---------------|------------------|-----|---------|
| catalog | A catalog id | 1 | "catalog":\<id\> | catalog=\<id\> | The catalog id has a numeric value |
| schema | A schema name | N/A | "schema":\<name\> | schema=\<name\> | A default value can be established through the [schema annotation default keys](https://github.com/informatics-isi-edu/chaise/blob/master/doc/annotation.md#schema-annotations). <br> A random schema of the catalog is selected if it is not specified otherwise. |
| layout | list <br> table <br> card | list | "layout":\<value\> | layout=\<value\> | The view the summary page will be rendered. |
| facetPolicy | on_demand | N/A | "facetPolicy":\<value\> | N/A | If present with the _on_demand_ value, requests (for facets count and for facets distinct values) will be issued only for the selected facets. <br> At start up, the facets with the "top" annotation will be selected.<br>  On demand, you can check also other facets. |
| feedbackURL | An URL for a form to provide feedback. | None | "feedbackURL":\<URL\> | N/A | |
| helpURL | An URL for getting help using Chaise. | None | "helpURL":\<URL\> | N/A | |
| ermrestLocation | The base URL for the ERMrest service | window.location.protocol + // + window.location.host | "ermrestLocation": \<URL\> | N/A | The location of the ERMrest service. |
| recordResource | The sub path for the record resource | /record | "recordResource":\<value\> | N/A | |
| showBadgeCounts | true <br> false | false | "showBadgeCounts":\<value\> | N/A | If true, facet counts will be displayed in the sidebar. |
| tableThreshold | Number of rows. | 0 | "tableThreshold":\<value\> | N/A | Max number of rows default to transpose view. |
| showAllAttributes | A boolean | False | "showAllAttributes":\<value\> | N/A | If present and True, select all the attributes in the search page. |
| headTitle | An application name | Chaise | "headTitle":\<value\> | N/A | The application name. |
| customCSS | An URL | N/A | "customCSS":\<value\> | N/A | The URL for a style sheet file to be applied for the application header. |
| navbarBrand | An URL | N/A | "navbarBrand":\<value\> | N/A | The URL for the branding logo in the top navigation bar. |
| navbarBrandText | A string | Chaise | "navbarBrandText":\<value\> | N/A | The value to be displayed in the navigation bar. |
| navbarBrandImage | An URL | N/A | "navbarBrandImage":\<value\> | N/A | The URL for an image to be displayed in the navigation bar. |
| logoutURL | An URL | /chaise/logout | "logoutURL":\<value\> | N/A | The URL to the logout page. |
| dataBrowser | An URL | /chaise/search | "dataBrowser":\<value\> | N/A | The URL to continue after a logout. |
| defaultAnnotationColor | red, orange, gold, green, blue, purple | red | "defaultAnnotationColor":\<value\> | N/A | In `/chaise/viewer`, annotations' borders and colors will default to this value. |
| confirmDelete | A boolean | true | "confirmDelete":\<value\> | N/A | If `false`, the user will **not** be prompted by a modal when deleting an item |
| hideSearchTextFacet | A boolean | false | "hideSearchTextFacet":\<value\> | N/A | Whether the search box for attributes names and values should be hidden |
| maxColumns | An integer | 6 | "maxColumns":\<value\> | N/A | The maximum number of columns to be displayed in the search result table |
